hello I'm Nancy Strickland and this
video is a quick intro to the PowerShell
integrated scripting environment the ISC
the ISE is a graphic host for PowerShell
so instead of having to do your
scripting work in a command prompt
window you can now use this here's how
you start it you may be able to access
it from all programs or you can start
PowerShell itself and then from it
powershell underscore ISE now you can
leave that PowerShell command window
open if you want but you don't have to
once the ISE is running that's enough
it doesn't depend on that PowerShell
window being open okay down here at the
bottom you can see that you have a power
shell prompt where you can type a single
command and when you press ENTER it'll
be executed and the output is here in
the output window the output pane to get
help I can press f1 and I get a standard
windows help window with searching and I
can also get context-sensitive help if I
put my cursor on a particular command
and press f1 then my help window opens
with that command selected and then here
in the lower right is something I really
like there's a little text slider so
that I can adjust the size of my text
whatever I'd like and I can also adjust
the size of the whole window and there's
also a kind of simple intellisense if I
try to start a command like get H and
then I press tab it's going to show me
the first command it finds that starts
with get aged alphabetically and then if
I keep pressing tab I'll see all of them
it'll iterate through every possible
command that starts with get age and
then start over when it gets to the end
of the list and if I just type the gate
for example I could see every single
command that starts with get that there
is I can also write a multi lines
ripped into the editor directly now if
you don't see the script paying when you
open PowerShell it's not here you can go
up here to this little script button up
here in the upper right and when you
click on it then the script window opens
up here that gives you a nice multi-line
interface instead of the one line at a
time command prompt you can basically
work like you do in an editor like
notepad
it's got an undo and a redo button up
here which is very handy and when you're
ready to run your script for testing you
can press f5 or you can click on this
little green triangle button up here so
you can see that the interface is
something like a simplified visual
studio now when I run it I'm not at a
command line so it opens up a dialog for
me to do my user input and here's my
output again in the output pane I can
also select only part of my script and
run only that part either by
right-clicking and selecting run
selection or just by pressing f8 and it
runs only that part now it still knows
what the value that's in dollar sign in
is so it still says hello Bob but notice
that it didn't ask me to enter the name
it didn't run that part of the code and
if I click on the Save button up here
I'll be saving a ps1 script I'll put it
right on my desktop and call it s1 and
when I save it it's going to be saved
right there to my desktop now I've got
some code in here if I want to start
another script I could of course delete
this I could clear it but I could also
press either ctrl T or file and new tab
and I get a new tab where I can write
more script or another script so that I
could be working on more than one script
at once or more than one version of a
script simultaneously and just click
back and forth between them but I think
the best new feature is the debugger
which is now a graphic debugger that you
can access here I can set a breakpoint
I'm going to select this line right here
and I can either press f9 or I can
right-click and click toggle breakpoint
and that's a toggle so I can turn it off
and on now when I run again I'm going to
press f5 execution starts and it stops
when it hits the breakpoint just before
it executes it and it turns it yellow
and then in the output pane I can see
that I'm in debug mode and all
so down here in the command line I'm in
debug mode right now so in the command
line if I wanted to view the contents of
some variable I can just type it in and
it shows me the current value of that
variable I can also see the call stack
at any time by going to debug and
display call stack or you see it's also
control shift D and there's not much of
a stack here but there could be and I
can also single step through my code
with the same keys that I'd use in
visual studio f10 to step over to
execute line all at once
f11 to step into that line if that line
involves a call to a function or
something and then shift f11 to step
back out of the function or at any time
I can hit f5 again to continue running
until the next breakpoint or until the
end so I hit f5 just then and it
continued running and gave me my output
so you get pretty much all the basic
functionality of a nice debugger for
your scripts it's a very nice feature
and and there you've seen it a quick
look at the PowerShell ISE in under
seven minutes